%title Linux管道命令
== 命名管道fifo ==
可以把管道想象为两个实体之间的单向连接器。管道是半双工的，如果需要全双工通讯，应该转而考虑套接字。 

匿名管道又称管道(PIPE)，提供了一个进程与它的兄弟进程通讯的方法，只存在于父进程中.

命名管道，可以存在于文件系统中，任意进程都可找到它，使得不同先祖的进程也可以通讯。 

{{{
A FIFO special file (a named pipe) is similar to a pipe, except that
       it is accessed as part of the file system.  It can be opened by
       multiple processes for reading or writing.  When processes are
       exchanging data via the FIFO, the kernel passes all data internally
       without writing it to the file system.  Thus, the FIFO special file
       has no contents on the file system; the file system entry merely
       serves as a reference point so that processes can access the pipe
       using a name in the file system.

       The kernel maintains exactly one pipe object for each FIFO special
       file that is opened by at least one process.  The FIFO must be opened
       on both ends (reading and writing) before data can be passed.
       Normally, opening the FIFO blocks until the other end is opened also.

       A process can open a FIFO in nonblocking mode.  In this case, opening
       for read-only will succeed even if no-one has opened on the write
       side yet, opening for write-only will fail with ENXIO (no such device
       or address) unless the other end has already been opened.

       Under Linux, opening a FIFO for read and write will succeed both in
       blocking and nonblocking mode.  POSIX leaves this behavior undefined.
       This can be used to open a FIFO for writing while there are no
       readers available.  A process that uses both ends of the connection
       in order to communicate with itself should be very careful to avoid
       deadlocks.
}}}

== FIFI和PIPE ==
=== 共同点 ===
他们的核心数据结构是一样的，pipe_inode_info，并且，FIFO的读写函数和pipe的读写函数也一致。

=== 区别 ===
第一，fifo出现在系统目录树中，是个特殊的文件,因为它不具备内容.而pipe则在特殊文件系统pipefs中。

第二，fifo是双向通信管道，而pipe是单向的。

= Pipe和FIFO有对应的disk image吗？有对应的indoe吗？他们属于同一个文件系统吗？ =
pipe和fifo都没有对应的disk image。

他们都是文件，所以肯定有inode。同时，当创建一个pipe或者fifo时，实际上是创建了一个inode和两个file object.

pipe属于pipefs文件系统，fifo不是。所以他们不属于同一个文件系统。

= Pipe和FIFO使用的多吗？ =

Pipe就不用说了，shell中经常用到，实际编程中如果遇到重定向或者父子进程通信，pipe也是一个不错的选择。就我目前看到过的代码而言，shell中pipe使用较多，c中pipe也有用到，但明显没有semaphore，socket等普遍。

FIFO的话，说实话，基本没见过。我认为原因是他能做的，socket也一定能做，并且能做的更好。所以FIFO就有点累赘了。另外，从本文开头的两篇链接中，我们可以看到，FIFO的编程有点麻烦，要对读写进行比较精确的控制，防止死锁或者竞争。
== 使用注意 ==
{{{
       When a process tries to write to a FIFO that is not opened for read
       on the other side, the process is sent a SIGPIPE signal.
}}}
因此,当管道一端执行写操作,必须等到另外一端打开读操作,终止信号才会解除
